% INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
%
% Capytool is designed to address the growing need for interactive data analysis tools in today's
% data driven world. This application guides users through the entire data workflow starting from
% dataset upload and cleaning, to feature engineering, exploratory data analysis (EDA), and finally,
% predictive modeling. The app supports multiple data formats and provides a range of interactive options,
% including dynamic column selection, advanced cleaning procedures, and interactive visualizations.
%
% ============================
% 
% DATA ACQUISITION, PREPROCESSING, AND CLEANING
%
% Capytool supports the upload of datasets in CSV, Excel, JSON, and RDS formats. Users are given the
% option to select which columns to process immediately after upload. The preprocessing module performs
% the following tasks:
%
% - Missing Value Handling: Imputes missing numeric values using the median and missing categorical values
%   using the mode.
% - Duplicate Removal: Automatically removes duplicate records from the dataset.
% - Outlier Handling: Detects outliers via either the Zscore method or the IQR method, with an option to remove them.
% - Data Type Conversion and Scaling: Allows conversion of columns to character, numeric, or date types;
%   also offers scaling options through standardization (Zscore) or normalization (0 to 1).
% - Categorical Encoding and Text Cleaning: Supports onehot and label encoding for categorical variables.
%   In addition, text cleaning features trim extra whitespace, convert text to lowercase, and remove punctuation.
%
% The combination of these processes ensures that raw data is transformed into a consistent format ready for
% feature engineering and subsequent analysis.
%
% ============================
% 
% FEATURE ENGINEERING
%
% The feature engineering module in Capytool offers a variety of transformation techniques to enhance data
% insight. Users can:
%
% - Apply a log transformation to selected numeric columns.
% - Generate polynomial features such as squared terms to capture nonlinear relationships.
% - Create interaction terms between two selected variables or generate multi column interactions by taking
%   the product of several columns.
% - Perform binning to convert continuous variables into categorical bins.
% - Apply custom mathematical transformations through userdefined expressions (for example, log(x+1)).
%
% These options are implemented interactively, and users can immediately preview the engineered data along with
% summary statistics to evaluate the impact of the transformation.
%
% ============================
% 
% EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS (EDA)
%
% Capytool provides a comprehensive EDA module that features interactive visualizations and dynamic filtering.
% Users can generate a variety of plots, including:
%
% - Scatter plots with brushing capability (referred to as Lasso Points) for detailed data subset inspection.
% - Histograms and box plots for comparing distributions of selected columns, with titles and legends that reflect
%   the actual variable names.
% - Pair plots (scatterplot matrices) for multivariate exploration.
% - PCA plots available in both 2D and 3D with grouping options and a downloadable PCA components table.
% - An interactive correlation heatmap that displays correlation coefficients among selected numeric columns.
% - Cluster plots and violin plots for clusters to assess group-specific patterns.
%
% In addition, descriptive statistics are computed for all selected columns. Numeric variables are summarized with
% standard statistics (minimum, first quartile, median, mean, third quartile, maximum), and categorical variables are
% labeled as "Categorical" with blank entries for the numerical summaries. All outputs are downloadable.
%
% ============================
% 
% MODELING
%
% The modeling module allows users to split the dataset into training and test sets using an adjustable ratio.
% The app supports various modeling techniques, including:
%
% - Linear Regression
% - Logistic Regression
% - Random Forest
% - Gradient Boosting
%
% Once the model is run, users can view interactive visualizations such as scatter plots comparing predicted versus
% actual values or histograms of predicted probabilities. The training data preview displays only the target variable
% and the selected predictors. Both the datasets and the model summary are available for download.
%
% ============================